# Overview
This repository contains two Java projects used to compare the performance of Gradle and Bazel build systems. The projects were originally generated by Gradle for a performance comparison against Bazel.
## Project Structure
### Large Monolithic Java Project
1. Located in largeMonolithicJavaProject
2. Contains 2500 source packages in main
3. Contains 2500 test packages in test
4. Each package has approximately 20 source files
### Medium Java Multi-Project
1. Located in mediumJavaMultiProject
2. Consists of 100 sub-projects
3. Each sub-project has 5 source packages and 5 test packages
4. Each package contains about 20 source files
### Branches
1. main: Gradle vs. Bazel with package level granularity
2. project-level-bazel: Gradle vs. Bazel with project level granularity
## Bazel Configuration
Both projects have been modified to include BUILD.bazel files at the package level, as recommended by the Bazel documentation.
## Study Purpose
The main objectives of this study are:
1. To compare the performance of Bazel and Gradle using different project structures
2. To evaluate the impact of build file granularity (project-level vs package-level) on build performance
3. To eveluate the remote execution
## Note on Code Base
This open-source repository was chosen to compare projects with varying structures and sizes. Due to the use of a third-party remote execution service (buildbuddy.io), actual production code could not be used for this comparison.

# Build Envirnoment
We use a Linux Ubuntu 20.04 OCI compute instance with 16 OCPU and 64G mem. Bazel version is 7.4.0 and Gradle is 8.10.2. For remote caching, Gradle uses Develocity; while Bazel uses buildbuddy.io for both remote caching and execution. 

